---
slug: ""
authors: james
date: "2023-03-19"
title: 
---

Abstract: core concepts and UI

Building out the MakeShift hardware felt like solving a jigsaw puzzle - fitting the pieces together within a clear-cut set of requirements. Designing the user journey felt like playing Minecraft in creative mode - here's the world, now build something good.

Venturing out from the well-defined lakes and rivers of hardware design, the decisions felt much more weighty and complex. On what technology stack do I build the software? How do I define maintainability? What tradeoffs am I unknowningly making if I use this pattern versus that pattern? These decisions don't have concrete answers, there's very little constraints to limit decision space, and the impacts would likely be measured in years of MakeShift's lifetime.

Probably the most complex question I've faced is what kind of experience I am designing for the future MakeShift users. I have a good idea of how I want the user to feel and the things I want them to be able to accomplish. The MakeShift should (ideally, of course) be able to work in a way that is almost expected, or invisible for a user. But that shit's difficult.

After talking with a number of people, I've found that there's about four different perspectives on learning software per three people. Some people hate tutorials, others really dig them. I've talked to people who pick up new apps like buckets pick up water. There's folks who ditch tools quickly if it doesn't work for their needs.

If there was one consistent thread from the interviews, it was that users need to know the goals, and the next step.

Many of our interviewees mentioned that they would go in with an idea and it is mostly up to the software to point them towards how to get their goals accomplished. This insight (appropriately enough) pointed me towards where the MakeShift user experience should start - introducing an expected workflow for a new user.

The MakeShift is not a tool that is laser focused on doing one specific task, it's a tool that is laser focused on simplifying interaction between buttons and tasks. Under the hood, all that makeshift-ctrl does is run cues that the user creates when buttons are pressed on the MakeShift device. That's not a concept that most people are likely to be familiar with, so it really is up to the UI and first-run experience to teach users - this is a cue, buttons have these events, you can create a cue to run a task when a button is pressed - so on and yatta yatta.